In this lecture we take a look at the include and exclude tax.
So what are the include in exclude tags?
Testing provides an option to include or exclude groups, test methods, classes and packages by using
special tags could include or exclude.
We use these tags in our testing XML file.
For example, if we didn't want a particular method to run when we trigger our tests, then we can set
the test method name inside the exclude tags and it will be out of scope of execution.
These tags provide additional flexibility, allowing us to very easily control what tests should and
shouldn't run.
So if we look at this example, this is an example of the use of the include tanks.
And on the left hand side I have a class with free methods and on the right hand side I am showing an
example of the include tag inside the test energy example file.
So our views include and provide the name of test one, which is the method name on the left hand side.
On line eight.
So when I run this test, inject some old file, it will only include the run in of method called test.
Underscore one.
In this example, I've used the exclude take and this time, well, views exclude take on the name test
one.
It will mean that test two and test free methods will run and it would exclude the running of test on
the score one.
So let's try this out.
So in this first example, I am going to show the use of the include tank.
So I am going to reuse classes from the last lecture.
And if I double click on this class, you'll see there's two methods here method seven and method date.
So I am going to use the include tag to run just method eight from this class.
So to do this again, to open up the test in XML file and I am going to remove those packages tags and
instead I am going to write classes.
And then we've we've inside those classes.
I am going to use the class tag.
Name.
Equals.
Double quotes.
And I am going to provide the package name, which is section 11.
And a dance.
And then the class name.
The class name being l zero for B on the school test.
NJ ex AML.
To.
And then at the end of that line.
I am just going to have a closed intake like so.
And inside that class tag, I am going to use methods.
And in inside those method takes I am going to use the includes.
Keyword and then name.
Equals double quotes.
And here I am going to provide the method name, which is method eight.
Like so.
And then at the end of this, I'm going to use a forward slash and they close in take.
So I've used classes and then inside the classes of use class and the nine up divide is the package
name, which is section 11.
And then the dots and then the actual class name itself, which is the same as this one.
Then I used the method tax and inside the method tags I use the include keyword and I provide the name
of the method that I would like to include, which is just this method eight here.
So if I say this now and try running it, let's see what happens.
And you can see only one test was run and it passed.
I mean if I scroll up it's output it.
Hello world from method eight.
And that is the message that this method here prints.
Now to do the same with exclude.
This is very simple.
All we need to do is change.
Include.
To exclude like so.
And if I say this now and try running it again.
You'll see once again, only one has run in passed.
But if we look at the message.
It says Hello World from Method seven.
And the reason for that is when I have excluded MiFID date.
It means this will not run.
And so the only remaining method in this class is method seven.
Hence why in the message hello world for method seven has printed.
So if I copy this quickly.
And added a new method called Method nine.
Change this thing on as well and save this.
Why try running that testing smell again?
You can see that two have run method seven and method nine.
And that's because method eight is quite simply been excluded.
So it's very simple.
And I hope you found this useful.
Thank you for watching.